README.md, before:

# Installation script for a separate install of HL: Alyx SDK tools.

This script installs the Windows version Half-Life: Alyx and its workshop tools DLC with SteamCMD, and installs a patched Proton to allow the tools to run.

## Why?

Yes, you could just set HL:Alyx to use Proton in your steam client, but this **allows keeping the linux version installed at the same time**

## Dependencies

1. steamCMD - required

## What it does:

The script is fairly self-explanatory, but mainly:

1. If existing install path is specified, it copies the `game` -folder to the specified install folder.
2. It uses steamCMD to install the Windows version of the HL:Alyx, with the Workshop tools DLC.
3. It downloads [a patched version of proton](https://github.com/stevenlafl/Proton/releases/tag/proton-5.0-7-alyx-2) by **stevenlafl** and extracts it to `~/.steam/root/compatibilitytools.d/`
4. It tells you to add the tools as a non steam game (as it cannot be automated), see [After running the script](#after-running-the-script)

## Usage

`. hl_alyx_tools_proton_install.sh STEAM_USERNAME INSTALL_LOCATION EXISTING_GAME_LOCATION`

Where:

```
STEAM_USERNAME          Your steam accounts (Which has HL: Alyx), username, for SteamCMD login

INSTALL_LOCATION        Where you want to install the game. For example: "/mnt/HDD/Games/hl_alyx_tools_proton/"

EXISTING_GAME_LOCATION  If you have HL: Alyx (Either Windows or Linux version) installed
                        we can copy common files to save on download time/bandwidth.
                        For example: "/mount/HDD/Games/Steam/SteamApps/common/Half-Life Alyx/"
```

### After running the script

1. Restart Steam
2. Add `/game/bin/win64/hlvrcfg.exe` to steam as a non steam game
3. Set it to use `proton-5.0-7-alyx-2`
4. Set launch options: `%command% -steam -retail`

## Updating the game.

Simply run the script again with the same settings.

## PSA

**There might be a issue with steam and non-steam games with proton.**

If you get `Proton: No compat data path?` in steam log (run steam from a terminal) you must launch steam with `STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH=/path/to/folder/ steam`.

Commit message:

added note about proton status

README.md, after:

# PSA!

Nowadays (atleast after 2021.9.27), Proton Experimental seems to run the exe too. But in that case you need to set "START IN" path for the non-steam game shortcut to the install folder (that folder where "content" & "game" folders are) to be able to edit addon content.

# Installation script for a separate install of HL: Alyx SDK tools.

This script installs the Windows version Half-Life: Alyx and its workshop tools DLC with SteamCMD, and installs a patched Proton to allow the tools to run.

## Why?

Yes, you could just set HL:Alyx to use Proton in your steam client, but this **allows keeping the linux version installed at the same time**

## Dependencies

1. steamCMD - required

## What it does:

The script is fairly self-explanatory, but mainly:

1. If existing install path is specified, it copies the `game` -folder to the specified install folder.
2. It uses steamCMD to install the Windows version of the HL:Alyx, with the Workshop tools DLC.
3. It downloads [a patched version of proton](https://github.com/stevenlafl/Proton/releases/tag/proton-5.0-7-alyx-2) by **stevenlafl** and extracts it to `~/.steam/root/compatibilitytools.d/`
4. It tells you to add the tools as a non steam game (as it cannot be automated), see [After running the script](#after-running-the-script)

## Usage

`. hl_alyx_tools_proton_install.sh STEAM_USERNAME INSTALL_LOCATION EXISTING_GAME_LOCATION`

Where:

```
STEAM_USERNAME          Your steam accounts (Which has HL: Alyx), username, for SteamCMD login

INSTALL_LOCATION        Where you want to install the game. For example: "/mnt/HDD/Games/hl_alyx_tools_proton/"

EXISTING_GAME_LOCATION  If you have HL: Alyx (Either Windows or Linux version) installed
                        we can copy common files to save on download time/bandwidth.
                        For example: "/mount/HDD/Games/Steam/SteamApps/common/Half-Life Alyx/"
```

### After running the script

1. Restart Steam
2. Add `/game/bin/win64/hlvrcfg.exe` to steam as a non steam game
3. Set it to use `proton-5.0-7-alyx-2`
4. Set launch options: `%command% -steam -retail`

## Updating the game.

Simply run the script again with the same settings.

## PSA

**There might be a issue with steam and non-steam games with proton.**

If you get `Proton: No compat data path?` in steam log (run steam from a terminal) you must launch steam with `STEAM_COMPAT_DATA_PATH=/path/to/folder/ steam`.
